The Lit Review can take a few directions. For instance,
## What has been done so far with this dataset
* There are a few kernels available through Kaggle, but most of these kernels/notebooks were created three years ago. 
* BillurEngin's kernel (https://www.kaggle.com/bengin/mastering-the-sf-library-data) explores the factors contributing to library activity (# of checkouts, # of renewals). Her work is most similar to the objective of this project. However, it is noted that she used total checkouts as is and does not address that the number is cumulative. Therefore, patrons who registered in 2003 is likely to have a higher checkout counts, comparing to more recent users (say, those who registered in 2014 and 2015). 
* Sebastian Mantey's kernel (https://www.kaggle.com/sebastianmantey/growth-for-growth-s-sake) includes number of branch openings/reopenings from 2004 to 2016 from outside source. He tried to study the relationship between active users/non-active users and the number of users registered. Mantey may have ignored the fact that the data available here is total checkouts. Without looking at the average annual checkouts (calculated as total checkouts /2016-year registered) and simply using total checkouts to categorize active/non-active users, this will fairly penalize those who obtained their accounts as recent years. Furthermore, Mantey's conclusion that "[b]ut a large part of that growth was either due to patrons who didn't use the service at all, or patrons who stopped using the service after a short time. And as a library official, that's probably not a development that you would like to see" did not take into consideration that the variety of services provided by public library. For instance, even if there is a drop in total checkouts in print materials, it can be well-compensated by an increase of usages in electronic resources. Also, data for patrons who use the facilities for library programmes, study space, meeting space, browsing collections is not included in this dataset. Therefore, it is inconclusive to say that SFPL grew from growth's sake simply based on this dataset. 
* A search in Library-specific abstract and index (Library, Information Science & Technology Abstracts (LISTA)) finds no results related to this particular dataset. This shows that, while there are exploratory data analysis (EDA) being done with this dataset, such attempts are likely to be conducted by data science enthuasiasts, not library professionals.
## What do we know about San Francisco and SFPL? 
* A crucial element for data science, in addition to mathematics and programming skills, is domain knowledge. In particular, when working with this dataset,  it is important to have background information about the organization, San Francisco Public Library (SFPL). 
* From information found in San Francisco, California (CA) profile, we know that San Francisco is an urban region with  population size 884 K in 2017. The growth in the city was quite rapid in the period we will study, as demonstrated in the 13.9 % population change since 2000 (San Francico, California (CA) profile).There is no indication that the city-county is serving an aging population, as the median resident age was 38.9 years. California median age was 36.5 years. 
 The estimated household income in 2017 was $110 K, much higher comparing to that of California ($71 K). The cost of living, however, was also notably high. In 2017, the estimated median house or condo value was over 1 million. That was a huge jump from its value in 2000 ($422 K). The March 2019 of cost living index in San Francisco is 173.6. That is very high, as the U.S. average was 100. 
* In public librarianship, there is a school of thought that emphasizes on  the professional and social responsibility that public libraians have towards the underdeserved margainalized populations. San Francisco Public Library (SFPL) is one of the libraries that have taken commitment to social justice seriously. Lilienthal (2011) reported that SFPL has Health and Safety Associates (HaSA), hired as part-time interns for the library. This group, comprised of formerly homeless men and women who were clients of the city's Homeless Outreach Team (HOT), provide peer counselling and offer information about food and shelter to patrons experiencing homelessness (Lilienthal 2011). Comito (2015) noted that SFPL hired full-time social workers to help address homelessness in the community, and this was shown in their partnerships and programming. The library, partnering with Lava Mae, a non-profit organization that retrofitted decommissioned city buses with shower faciltiies, offers free showers to the public. Comito quoted Leah Filler, a global community engagement coordinator of Lava Mae, who pointed out, "The library is unique (as a partner) because they are not a homeless service provider, they are a public library. What’s great about them is that they are one of the few institutions in San Francisco that have adamantly kept their doors open to...all members of the public, including people who are homeless. In doing so they preserve
public restroom access, which is extremely limited right now in [the city]. So they are known as one of the only places people can go to use the restrooms, get on the computer, have a quiet space to read for the day."(ibid.)

## What do we know about driving forces behind library circulation activities? 
* Here, defined as number of checkouts and may number of renewals
* Ideally, we can find literature about studies done in the area of public libraries. If there is none, a broader scope (which covers all kind of libraries) will be used. 
* In LISTA, the most useful subject term is "LIBRARY circulation analysis". At the first glance, it does look like it is more being done in academic libraries. 	DE "LIBRARY circulation analysis" AND DE "public libraries" 
* Interestingly, 
* Library circulation statistics are important to public libraries. In fact, librarians have gone so far to fake library usage as attempts to save low-usage but valuable items in their collections (Brunvand Mar-Apr. 2017). It is however not common for public library professional to use patron data to understand the patrons.  American public libraries use an index called "Index of American Public Libraries Circulation" to gauge whether their circulation statistics is proportional to the expenditures (Cree and Yoon. 2005). This study, trying to tap into the power of data science to advance library science, is an novel idea. 
* Cree and Yoon reported that in 2004, that is, in the earlier part of the period our data is covering, the Index of American Public Libraries Circulation showed a decrease in both adult and juvenile circulations. This indicate "a change trend in public library use" (ibid. Cree and Yoon). 
* When seeing a surge or a drop in circulation statistics, public library professionals have explained the changes by attributing to various factors: mild weather (“Library Circulation Booming in Lake County, Indiana"), a popular addition - such as graphic novels (Raiteri, 2006) , career-related books for a population with high unemployment rate (“Library Circulation Booming in Lake County, Indiana") to the collection - 

Works Cited

Brunvand, Amy. "Fake patrons as civil disobedience." American Libraries, Mar.-Apr. 2017, p. 9. Gale OneFile: CPI.Q, https://link-gale-com.ezproxy.lib.ryerson.ca/apps/doc/A488605139/CPI?u=rpu_main&sid=CPI&xid=aab27c28. Accessed 3 Feb. 2020.

Comito, Lauren. “DPL, SFPL Offer Innovative Homeless Services.” Library Journal, vol. 140, no. 17, Oct. 2015, pp. 13–16. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lxh&AN=110530174&site=ehost-live.

Cree, Charity L., and Mijung Yoon. “Public Library Circulation Decreases, Expenditures Rise.” American Libraries, vol. 36, no. 10, Nov. 2005, pp. 57–58. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lxh&AN=18738597&site=ehost-live.

Galbi, DouglasA. “Book Circulation Per U.S. Public Library User Since 1856.” Public Library Quarterly, vol. 27, no. 4, Dec. 2008, pp. 351–371. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1080/01616840802477144.

Hoffert, Barbara. “The Turnaround.” Library Journal, vol. 130, no. 3, Feb. 2005, pp. 36–38. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lxh&AN=16128918&site=ehost-live.

Landgraf, Mary N. “Library Cards for the Homeless.” American Libraries, vol. 22, no. 10, Nov. 1991, p. 946. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lxh&AN=9112233292&site=ehost-live.

“Library Circulation Booming in Lake County, Indiana.” Library Journal, vol. 108, no. 9, May 1983, p. 869. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lxh&AN=7572831&site=ehost-live.

Lilienthal, Stephen M. “The Problem Is Not the Homeless.” Library Journal, vol. 136, no. 11, June 2011, pp. 30–34. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lxh&AN=61428299&site=ehost-live.

Luzius, Jeff. “A Look at Circulation Statistics.” Journal of Access Services, vol. 2, no. 4, Jan. 2005, pp. 15–22. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1300/J204v02n04_03.

Nagy, Andrew. “Chapter 5: The Impact of the Next-Generation Catalog.” Library Technology Reports, vol. 47, no. 7, Oct. 2011, pp. 18–20. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lxh&AN=69736268&site=ehost-live.

Ottensmann, John R., and Raymond E. Gnat. “Similarities in Circulation Pattern among Public Library Serving Diverse Populations.” Library Quarterly, vol. 65, no. 1, Jan. 1995, p. 89. EBSCOhost, doi:10.1086/602754.

Raiteri, Steve. “Graphic Novels.” Library Journal, vol. 131, no. 5, Mar. 2006, p. 58. EBSCOhost, search.ebscohost.com/login.aspx?direct=true&db=lxh&AN=20052151&site=ehost-live.

San Francisco, California (CA) profile: population, maps, real .... Retrieved February 15, 2020, from http://www.city-data.com/city/San-Francisco-California.html
